Add rough reference for `tbot-spiffe-daemon-set` chart (#65694)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/reference/helm-reference/tbot-spiffe-daemon-set.mdx

---
title: tbot-spiffe-daemon-set Chart Reference
sidebar_label: tbot-spiffe-daemon-set
description: Values that can be set using the tbot-spiffe-daemon-set Helm chart
tags:
 - reference
 - mwi
 - infrastructure-identity
---

> This chart deploys an daemon set of the [Machine & Workload Identity](../../machine-workload-identity/introduction.mdx) agent,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chart deploys a daemon set of the [Machine & Workload Identity](../../machine-workload-identity/introduction.mdx) agent,
```

> TBot, into your Kubernetes cluster for the purposes of providing SPIFFE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TBot, into your Kubernetes cluster to provide SPIFFE
```

identities to workloads in the cluster. This is the recommended way of deploying
MWI for SPIFFE into Kubernetes Clusters.

To use it, you will need to know:

- The address of your Teleport Proxy Service or Auth Service
- The name of your Teleport cluster
- The name of a join token configured for Machine & Workload Identity and your Kubernetes cluster
as described in the [Machine & Workload Identity on Kubernetes guide](../../machine-workload-identity/deployment/kubernetes.mdx)
- A configured WorkloadIdentity resource for your cluster.

> By default, this chart is designed to use the `kubernetes` join method but it

Reviewer: worth adding a brief pointer to where that customization lives (e.g. ../../reference/deployment/join-methods.mdx), otherwise it reads as a dead end.

Author: fe6b7b380e8

can be customized to use any delegated join method. We do not recommend that
you use the `token` join method with this chart.

## Minimal configuration

Follow steps 1 and 2 from the

> [Deploying `tbot` on Kubernetes guide](https://goteleport.com/docs/machine-workload-identity/deployment/kubernetes/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Deploying `tbot` on Kubernetes guide](../../machine-workload-identity/deployment/kubernetes.mdx)
```

authentication.

You must have also created a WorkloadIdentity resource to be used when issuing
a SPIFFE SVID. For example, the following configuration would produce a SPIFFE
ID including the namespace and service account of the pod:

```yaml
kind: workload_identity
version: v1
metadata:
  name: example-workload-identity
spec:
  spiffe:
    id: /k8s/{{ workload.kubernetes.namespace }}/{{ workload.kubernetes.service_account }}
```

Ensure that your Bot has been granted access to issue this WorkloadIdentity
via a role.

See the [WorkloadIdentity reference](../machine-workload-identity/workload-identity/workload-identity-resource.mdx)
for more information.

The following are the minimal values you must set on the chart for it to
function correctly:

```yaml
# Set to the name of your Teleport cluster.
clusterName: example.teleport.sh
# Set to the name of the token you created.
token: example-token
# Set to the address of your Teleport Proxy Service.
teleportProxyAddress: example.teleport.sh:443
workloadIdentitySelector:
  # Set to the name of the WorkloadIdentity resource you'd like to use when
  # issuing SVIDs.
  name: example-workload-identity
```

> Once this chart is deployed, you may then manually mount the SPIFFE Workload API

Reviewer: 'may then manually mount' is a bit awkward. Maybe something like "After deploying this chart, mount the SPIFFE Workload API socket into your workload pods manually, or deploy the SPIFFE CSI Driver to simplify this process"

Author: fe6b7b380e8

---
title: tbot-spiffe-daemon-set Chart Reference
sidebar_label: tbot-spiffe-daemon-set
description: Values that can be set using the tbot-spiffe-daemon-set Helm chart
tags:
 - reference
 - mwi
 - infrastructure-identity
---

This chart deploys a daemon set of the [Machine & Workload Identity](../../machine-workload-identity/introduction.mdx) agent,

> TBot, into your Kubernetes cluster to provide SPIFFE identities to workloads in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tbot, into your Kubernetes cluster to provide SPIFFE identities to workloads in
```

the cluster. This is the recommended way of deploying MWI for SPIFFE into

> Kubernetes Clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kubernetes clusters.
```
"Clusters" isn't a proper noun in this context.

To use it, you will need to know:

- The address of your Teleport Proxy Service or Auth Service
- The name of your Teleport cluster
- The name of a join token configured for Machine & Workload Identity and your Kubernetes cluster
as described in the [Machine & Workload Identity on Kubernetes guide](../../machine-workload-identity/deployment/kubernetes.mdx)

> - A configured WorkloadIdentity resource for your cluster.

Reviewer 3: We should be consistent in the punctuation we add to the end of sentences in lists.

Author: [a6bbfe5](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/65694/commits/a6bbfe52d7fd854e0874e3465091d13845c2e0a8)

By default, this chart is designed to use the `kubernetes` join method but it
can be customized to use any delegated join method. We do not recommend that
you use the `token` join method with this chart. Visit the

> [join method reference](../deployment/join-methods.mdx) for more information.

Reviewer 3: What additional information would the user expect to find here? This paragraph is giving specific guidance, but the `join-methods.mdx` index page is a wide-ranging survey of all of the Agent join methods.

Author: [7679a44](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/65694/commits/7679a44b5ab5f092279b507055b0b8fd26a60585)

## Minimal configuration

Follow steps 1 and 2 from the
[Deploying `tbot` on Kubernetes guide](../../machine-workload-identity/deployment/kubernetes.mdx)
to create a Bot and Join Token for your `tbot` daemon set to use for

> authentication.

Reviewer 3: Would it make sense to use partials to include this content in this guide to reduce friction for the reader? There's already a partial for Step 1.

Author: As per https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/65694#discussion_r3086741090, I hope to add a distinct how-to guide on deploying this Helm chart in coming weeks. For now, I'd like to keep this reference as light as possible and lean on the user already having some familiarity with the topics at hand when reading this reference. When I produce the how-to guide, we'll be able to re-use step 1/2 as partials and I'll likely strip down some of the content in this reference and point at the how-to guide instead.

Reviewer 3: Gotcha, thanks!

> You must have also created a WorkloadIdentity resource to be used when issuing

Reviewer 3: Do we have a how-to guide that corresponds with the reference? The sequential instructions in this guide are pretty substantial, so it seems like it would benefit from following the structure of a Teleport how-to guide.

For example, the Prerequisites section helps the reader by including all prerequisites in a single location, rather than interspersing them throughout the how-to steps.

Author: I'd like to introduce a how-to guide in the next few weeks and refactor this to be more of a pure reference since I think this is fairly complex and deserves a proper guide, and refactor the content in this reference page. 

However, at the moment, I'm just hoping to get this basic information out for a prospect since we don't currently cover this chart anywhere within our documentation which is hurting discoverability by engineers/agents.
